README.md, before:

# cwd submodule

This repository is a [git submodule](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules)
providing standard-ish support code for applications that use [libcwd](https://github.com/CarloWood/libcwd).

It provides the following features,
* defines all libcwd debug macros as empty (with the exception of <tt>LibcwDoutFatal</tt>) when not compiling with debug support.
* defines the extra helper macros:
  * <tt>DEBUG_ONLY(...)</tt>
  * <tt>COMMA_DEBUG_ONLY(...)</tt>
  * <tt>ASSERT(expr)</tt>
* and when compiled with debugging, the macros,
  * <tt>NAMESPACE_DEBUG</tt>
  * <tt>NAMESPACE_DEBUG_START</tt>
  * <tt>NAMESPACE_DEBUG_END</tt>
  * <tt>NAMESPACE_CHANNELS</tt>
  * <tt>DEBUGCHANNELS</tt>
  * <tt>NAMESPACE_DEBUG_CHANNELS_START</tt>
  * <tt>NAMESPACE_DEBUG_CHANNELS_END</tt>
  * <tt>DoutEntering</tt>
* Declares initialization functions for libcwd to be called from the top of <tt>main</tt> and the start of threads.
* Provides a function to turn an address into a string with filename and line number.
* Defines exception safe struct for indenting debug output (<tt>Indent</tt>) and making temporarily making allocation invisible (<tt>InvisibleAllocations</tt>).
* Defines a streambuf class that can be used to turn background color of all debug output green.
* Defines a global mutex to be used for <tt>std::cout</tt> (if you want output to std::cout not to interfer with debug output).
* Defines ostream serializers for many types to pretty-print them easily to a debug stream, like
  * <tt>timeval</tt>
  * <tt>boost::shared_ptr&lt;T&gt;</tt>
  * <tt>boost::weak_ptr&lt;T&gt;</tt>
  * <tt>std::pair&lt;T1, T2&gt;</tt>
  * <tt>std::map&lt;T1, T2, T3&gt;</tt>

## Checking out a project that uses the cwd submodule.

To clone a project example-project that uses cwd simply run:

<pre>
<b>git clone --recursive</b> &lt;<i>URL-to-project</i>&gt;<b>/example-project.git</b>
<b>cd example-project</b>
<b>./autogen.sh</b>
</pre>

The <tt>--recursive</tt> is optional because <tt>./autogen.sh</tt> will fix
it when you forgot it.

Afterwards you probably want to use <tt>--enable-mainainer-mode</tt>
as option to the generated <tt>configure</tt> script. Note that <tt>--enable-mainainer-mode</tt>
enables debugging by default (<tt>--enable-debug</tt>), and will try to use libcwd when
available; <tt>configure</tt> will check for the existence of libcwd and use it when
found. If you want to use maintainer-mode without debugging then configure
using <tt>--enable-mainainer-mode --disable-debug</tt>, or if you want to enforce
using libcwd, with or without maintainer-mode, then use <tt>--enable-libcwd</tt>.

## Adding the cwd submodule to a project

To add this submodule to a project, that project should already
be set up to use [cwm4](https://github.com/CarloWood/cwm4).

Simply execute the following in a directory of that project
where you want to have the <tt>cwd</tt> subdirectory:

<pre>
git submodule add https://github.com/CarloWood/cwd.git
</pre>

This should clone cwd into the subdirectory <tt>cwd</tt>, or
if you already cloned it there, it should add it.

Changes to <tt>configure.ac</tt> and <tt>Makefile.am</tt>
are taken care of my <tt>cwm4</tt>, except for linking
which works as usual.

For example a module that defines a

<pre>
bin_PROGRAMS = singlethreaded_foobar multithreaded_foobar
</pre>

would also define

<pre>
singlethreaded_foobar_CXXFLAGS = @LIBCWD_FLAGS@
singlethreaded_foobar_LDADD = ../cwd/libcwd.la @LIBCWD_LIBS@

multithreaded_foobar_CXXFLAGS = @LIBCWD_R_FLAGS@
multithreaded_foobar_LDADD = ../cwd/libcwd_r.la @LIBCWD_R_LIBS@
</pre>

or whatever the path to `cwd` etc. is, to add linking with cwd
in addition to linking with libcwd.

The availability of libcwd.la and/or libcwd_r.la is determined by the second
parameter of the <tt>CW_OPG_CXXFLAGS</tt> macro in <tt>configure.ac</tt>;
which can be <tt>[no]</tt> (single-threaded) in which case only <tt>libcwd.la</tt>
is available, <tt>[yes]</tt> (multi-threaded) in which case only <tt>libcwd_r.la</tt>
is available, or <tt>[both]</tt> in which case both are available.
See the [cwm4](https://github.com/CarloWood/cwm4) submodule for more details.

As described in the documentation of [libcwd](https://github.com/CarloWood/libcwd),
each (C++) source file must begin with <tt>#include &lt;sys.h&gt;</tt> and
use <tt>#include &lt;debug.h&gt;</tt> when containing any debug code.
This submodule provides those header files, but there is some room for tuning
the namespace used for the debugging specific code of the application.

The following namespaces are relevant:

<pre>
namespace example {
  namespace debug {
    namespace channels {
      namespace dc {
<pre>

Where <tt>namespace example</tt> is optional, in fact, anything
inside namespace <tt>debug</tt> can be put anywhere, we're just using
<tt>example::debug</tt> as the example right now.

Also the name of <tt>namespace channels</tt> can be changed, although
that is only necessary in special cases when writing a library that
wishes to reuse the name of an existing debug channel. You'll know
when you need that, until then I suggest you'll just leave it at
<tt>channels</tt>.

By default (which is ok for any application, but not for libraries)
the debug namespace is just <tt>debug::</tt>, thus no <tt>namespace example</tt>.
This is the case when directly including the <tt>debug.h</tt> provided
by this submodule. Hence, a library should provide yet another debug.h
file and make sure that is first in the include path. Other submodules,
which don't know if such a debug.h is provided should therefore use
in their <tt>Makefile.am</tt>:

<pre>
AM_CPPFLAGS = -iquote $(top_builddir) -iquote $(top_srcdir) -iquote $(top_srcdir)/cwd
</pre>

So that library projects (or applications) can put a <tt>debug.h</tt>
in <tt>$(top_srcdir)</tt> that contains something like:

<pre>
#pragma once

#define NAMESPACE_DEBUG example::debug
#define NAMESPACE_DEBUG_START namespace example { namespace debug {
#define NAMESPACE_DEBUG_END } }
#include "cwd/debug.h"
</pre>

Or, if they don't, that then <tt>cwd/debug.h</tt> will be included
directly. Note that the <tt>-iquote $(top_builddir)</tt> is necessary
too in order to pick up the generated <tt>config.h</tt> that is
included from <tt>cwd/sys.h</tt>.

In order to initialize libcwd properly, the following has to be added
to the top of <tt>main</tt>:

<pre>
int main()
{
#ifdef DEBUGGLOBAL
  GlobalObjectManager::main_entered();
#endif
  Debug(NAMESPACE_DEBUG::init());
</pre>

The first three lines are actually something from [ai-utils](https://github.com/CarloWood/ai-utils),
just shown here to show the typical order.

Threads on the other hand need to begin with the following code:

<pre>
  Debug(NAMESPACE_DEBUG::init_thread());
</pre>

Finally, run

<pre>
./autogen.sh
</pre>

to let cwm4 do its magic, and commit all the changes.

Commit message:

Rename submodule from cwd to cwds.

README.md, after:

# cwds submodule

This repository is a [git submodule](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules)
providing standard-ish support code for applications that use [libcwd](https://github.com/CarloWood/libcwd).

It provides the following features,
* defines all libcwd debug macros as empty (with the exception of <tt>LibcwDoutFatal</tt>) when not compiling with debug support.
* defines the extra helper macros:
  * <tt>DEBUG_ONLY(...)</tt>
  * <tt>COMMA_DEBUG_ONLY(...)</tt>
  * <tt>ASSERT(expr)</tt>
* and when compiled with debugging, the macros,
  * <tt>NAMESPACE_DEBUG</tt>
  * <tt>NAMESPACE_DEBUG_START</tt>
  * <tt>NAMESPACE_DEBUG_END</tt>
  * <tt>NAMESPACE_CHANNELS</tt>
  * <tt>DEBUGCHANNELS</tt>
  * <tt>NAMESPACE_DEBUG_CHANNELS_START</tt>
  * <tt>NAMESPACE_DEBUG_CHANNELS_END</tt>
  * <tt>DoutEntering</tt>
* Declares initialization functions for libcwd to be called from the top of <tt>main</tt> and the start of threads.
* Provides a function to turn an address into a string with filename and line number.
* Defines exception safe struct for indenting debug output (<tt>Indent</tt>) and making temporarily making allocation invisible (<tt>InvisibleAllocations</tt>).
* Defines a streambuf class that can be used to turn background color of all debug output green.
* Defines a global mutex to be used for <tt>std::cout</tt> (if you want output to std::cout not to interfer with debug output).
* Defines ostream serializers for many types to pretty-print them easily to a debug stream, like
  * <tt>timeval</tt>
  * <tt>boost::shared_ptr&lt;T&gt;</tt>
  * <tt>boost::weak_ptr&lt;T&gt;</tt>
  * <tt>std::pair&lt;T1, T2&gt;</tt>
  * <tt>std::map&lt;T1, T2, T3&gt;</tt>

## Checking out a project that uses the cwds submodule.

To clone a project example-project that uses cwds simply run:

<pre>
<b>git clone --recursive</b> &lt;<i>URL-to-project</i>&gt;<b>/example-project.git</b>
<b>cd example-project</b>
<b>./autogen.sh</b>
</pre>

The <tt>--recursive</tt> is optional because <tt>./autogen.sh</tt> will fix
it when you forgot it.

Afterwards you probably want to use <tt>--enable-mainainer-mode</tt>
as option to the generated <tt>configure</tt> script. Note that <tt>--enable-mainainer-mode</tt>
enables debugging by default (<tt>--enable-debug</tt>), and will try to use libcwd when
available; <tt>configure</tt> will check for the existence of libcwd and use it when
found. If you want to use maintainer-mode without debugging then configure
using <tt>--enable-mainainer-mode --disable-debug</tt>, or if you want to enforce
using libcwd, with or without maintainer-mode, then use <tt>--enable-libcwd</tt>.

## Adding the cwds submodule to a project

To add this submodule to a project, that project should already
be set up to use [cwm4](https://github.com/CarloWood/cwm4).

Simply execute the following in a directory of that project
where you want to have the <tt>cwds</tt> subdirectory:

<pre>
git submodule add https://github.com/CarloWood/cwds.git
</pre>

This should clone cwds into the subdirectory <tt>cwds</tt>, or
if you already cloned it there, it should add it.

Changes to <tt>configure.ac</tt> and <tt>Makefile.am</tt>
are taken care of my <tt>cwm4</tt>, except for linking
which works as usual.

For example a module that defines a

<pre>
bin_PROGRAMS = singlethreaded_foobar multithreaded_foobar
</pre>

would also define

<pre>
singlethreaded_foobar_LDADD = ../cwds/libcwds.la

multithreaded_foobar_LDADD = ../cwds/libcwds_r.la
</pre>

or whatever the path to `cwds` etc. is, to add linking with cwds
in addition to linking with libcwd.

The availability of libcwds.la and/or libcwds_r.la is determined by the second
parameter of the <tt>CW_OPG_CXXFLAGS</tt> macro in <tt>configure.ac</tt>;
which can be <tt>[no]</tt> (single-threaded) in which case only <tt>libcwds.la</tt>
is available, <tt>[yes]</tt> (multi-threaded) in which case only <tt>libcwds_r.la</tt>
is available, or <tt>[both]</tt> in which case both are available.
See the [cwm4](https://github.com/CarloWood/cwm4) submodule for more details.

As described in the documentation of [libcwd](https://github.com/CarloWood/libcwd),
each (C++) source file must begin with <tt>#include &lt;sys.h&gt;</tt> and
use <tt>#include &lt;debug.h&gt;</tt> when containing any debug code.
This submodule provides those header files, but there is some room for tuning
the namespace used for the debugging specific code of the application.

The following namespaces are relevant:

<pre>
namespace example {
  namespace debug {
    namespace channels {
      namespace dc {
<pre>

Where <tt>namespace example</tt> is optional, in fact, anything
inside namespace <tt>debug</tt> can be put anywhere, we're just using
<tt>example::debug</tt> as the example right now.

Also the name of <tt>namespace channels</tt> can be changed, although
that is only necessary in special cases when writing a library that
wishes to reuse the name of an existing debug channel. You'll know
when you need that, until then I suggest you'll just leave it at
<tt>channels</tt>.

By default (which is ok for any application, but not for libraries)
the debug namespace is just <tt>debug::</tt>, thus no <tt>namespace example</tt>.
This is the case when directly including the <tt>debug.h</tt> provided
by this submodule. Hence, a library should provide yet another debug.h
file and make sure that is first in the include path. Other submodules,
which don't know if such a debug.h is provided should therefore use
in their <tt>Makefile.am</tt>:

<pre>
AM_CPPFLAGS = -iquote $(top_builddir) -iquote $(top_srcdir) -iquote $(top_srcdir)/cwds
</pre>

So that library projects (or applications) can put a <tt>debug.h</tt>
in <tt>$(top_srcdir)</tt> that contains something like:

<pre>
#pragma once

#define NAMESPACE_DEBUG example::debug
#define NAMESPACE_DEBUG_START namespace example { namespace debug {
#define NAMESPACE_DEBUG_END } }
#include "cwds/debug.h"
</pre>

Or, if they don't, that then <tt>cwds/debug.h</tt> will be included
directly. Note that the <tt>-iquote $(top_builddir)</tt> is necessary
too in order to pick up the generated <tt>config.h</tt> that is
included from <tt>cwds/sys.h</tt>.

In order to initialize libcwd properly, the following has to be added
to the top of <tt>main</tt>:

<pre>
int main()
{
#ifdef DEBUGGLOBAL
  GlobalObjectManager::main_entered();
#endif
  Debug(NAMESPACE_DEBUG::init());
</pre>

The first three lines are actually something from [ai-utils](https://github.com/CarloWood/ai-utils),
just shown here to show the typical order.

Threads on the other hand need to begin with the following code:

<pre>
  Debug(NAMESPACE_DEBUG::init_thread());
</pre>

Finally, run

<pre>
./autogen.sh
</pre>

to let cwm4 do its magic, and commit all the changes.
